--- GROMACS benchmark ---

This directory contains 3 Perl scripts which can be used for gromacs benchmark:

---------------------
 1. gmx_benchmark.pl
---------------------
This script can automate gromacs benchmark if GROMACS is installed locally. The
script takes care of the system generation, execution of the benchmark and also
the conversion of the units from kJ/mol and nm (GROAMCS default) into kcal/mol
and Angstrom.

Usage example:

./gmx_benchmark.pl my_structure.gro charmm27 my_structure

my_structure.gro : The structure of the benchmark system in GROMACS coordinate
                   file format (*.gro, a pdb file can be easily converted to
                   *.gro format via the GROAMCS tool editconf).

charmm27:          The name of the force field to use; any force field which 
                   included in the gromacs force field directory
                   "../gromacs/share/gromacs/top/"
                   can be directly used.

my_structure:      A user specified name for the benchmark system, will be used
                   to generate the file names for the output.

After the benchmark, the script will write the result into a file (*.frcdmp)
which contains the energy terms and forces on all atoms in the format as used
in the "golden standard" directory.

---------------------------
 2. gmx_benchmark_basic.pl
---------------------------
This script is practically the last part of the "gmx_benchmark.pl". It is made
for cases, for example, if the force field parameters needed are not available
in the GROMACS default force field directory, or the system cannot be generated
with standard GROMACS tools but manually by the user. In this case, the user
only needs to provide a GROMACS *.tpr file and this script will carry out the
benchmark and write out the output file in proper format and units.

Usage example:

./gmx_benchmark_basic.pl my_benchmark.tpr my_system

my_benchmark.tpr: The GROMACS *.tpr file, a binary file that contains the all
                  system information, force field parameters and simulation
                  protocol. It is generated by the gromacs tool "grompp", see
                  grompp manuel for more details.

my_system:        A user specified name for the benchmark system, will be used
                  to generate the file names for the output.


--------------------
 amb2gmx_xhu_mod.pl
--------------------

This script convert a AMBER simulation system specified by a *.prmtop and a
*.crd file into a GROMACS simulation system defined by a *.top and a *.gro
file.

The original script I adopted was written by Eric Sorin, Pande lab, Stanford
and further modified by David Mobley and John Chodera, Dill lab, UCSF. The
current version was further modified by myself. Here, the Ryckaert-Bellemans
dihedrals representation in the output *.top file was changed to the standard
dihedral representation using the equation V_dihe = K*(1+cos(n*phi-phi_s)),
where K, n and phi_s are given as force field parameters. The change was made
to ensure the both AMBER and GROMACS will yield the same dihedral energy term
for the same structure and (AMBER) force field parameters.

Usage example:

./amb2gmx.pl --prmtop amber-prmtop-filename --crd amber-crd-filename --outname outname [--debug] [--help]

