
Toppar files for polarizable model based on the classical Drude
oscillator.

July 2008
adm jr.

The files in this directory and subdirectories are designed based on
the implementation of the polarizable Drude oscillator model in
version c35 of charmm.  The input format for the Drude polarizable
model changed significantly upon going from C34 to C35.  The changes
involved placing the majority of the information required to generate
the information to run the Drude model in the RTF file.  This
information may be used in conjunction with the "AUTOgenerate Drudes"
command to create the new polarizable model.  This implementation is
significantly faster than the previous version and is much more
transparent to the user.  In association with these changes
significant alterations in the toppar files to run the Drude
polarizable modele have been made, as described below.  See
doc/Drude.src for more details.

toppar_drude_master_c36a1.str: toppar stream files that contains ALL
the RTF and parameter information required to run the Drude
polarizable model.

test_drude_model.inp: input to run all the residues in the above
toppar stream file. Note that "drude dmass 0.4" must be included in
the GENErate statement and "coor sdrude" and "coor shake" commands are
essential prior to any updates/energies etc.

NOTE: These parameters are developmental and may change in future
release of the Drude polarizabile force field.

subdirectory positive_drude

This directory contains toppar files based on a positive Drude
particle.  They are maintained for completeness; however, the negative
Drude parameters will be the default in the future.

toppar_drude_positive_swm4_ions.str: toppar information for SWM4-DP
and ions based on a positive Drude.

positive_drude_test_temp.inp: test case for the SWM4-DP and ions. See
the 00readme file for details.

References

General: Anisimov, V.M., Lamoureux, G., Vorobyov, I.V., Huang, N.,
Roux, B. and MacKerell, A.D., Jr. :Determination of Electrostatic
Parameters for a Polarizable Force Field Based on the Classical Drude
Oscillator," Journal of Chemical Theory and Computing, 1:153-168,
2005.

Water model (see POSTIVE DRUDE REFERENCES below)

SWM4-NDP, negative Drude (this will be the default model): Lamoureux,
G., Harder, E., Vorobyov, I.V., Deng, Y., Roux, B. MacKerell, A.D.,
Jr., A polarizable model of water for molecular dynamics simulations
of biomolecules, Chemical Physics Letters, 2006, 418: 245-249.

Alkanes: 

Igor V. Vorobyov, Victor M. Anisimov and Alexander D. MacKerell,
Jr. "Polarizable Empirical Force Field for Alkanes Based on the
Classical Drude Oscillator Model," Journal of Physical Chemistry B,
109: 18988-18999, 2005.

Anisotropic polarizability model:

Harder, E., Anisimov, V.M., Vorobyov, I.V., Lopes, P.E., Noskov, S.,
MacKerell, Jr., A.D.  and Roux, B. Atomic Level Anisotropy in the
Electrostatic Modeling of Lone Pairs for a Polarizable Force Field
based on the Classical Drude Oscillator, Journal of Chemical Theory
and Computation, 2: 1587-1597, 2006

Aromatics:

Lopes, P., Lamoureux, G., Roux, B., MacKerell, Jr., A.D., "Polarizable
Empirical Force Field for Aromatic Compounds Based on the Classical
Drude Oscillator," Journal of Physical Chemistry, B. 111:2873-2885,
2007

Ethers:

Vorobyov, I.V., Anisimov, V.M., Greene, S., Venable, R.M., Moser, A.,
Pastor, R.W. and MacKerell, A.D., Jr., Additive and Classical Drude
Polarizable Force Fields for Linear and Cyclic Ethers, Journal of
Chemical Theory and Computation, 3: 1120-1133, 2007.

Alcohols:

Anisimov, V.M., Vorobyov, I.V., Roux, B., and MacKerell, A.D., Jr.
Polarizable empirical force field for the primary and secondary
alcohol series based on the classical Drude model. Journal of Chemical
Theory and Computation, 3, 1927-1946, 2007.

Amides:

Harder, E., Anisimov, V.M., Whitfield, T., MacKerell, Jr., A.D., Roux,
B. "Understanding the Dielectric Properties of Liquid Amides from a
Polarizable Force Field," Journal of Physical Chemistry,
112:3509-3521. 2008, PMID: 18302362

POSTIVE DRUDE REFERENCES

SWM4-DP, positive Drude (works with ions of Lamoureux and Roux):
Lamoureux, G., MacKerell, A.D., Jr., Roux, B. "A simple polarizable
model of water based on classical Drude oscillators," Journal of
Chemical Physics, 119: 5185-5197, 2003

Ions

Lamoureux, G.; Roux, B. Absolute Hydration Free Energy Scale for
Alkali and Halide Ions Established from Simulations with a Polarizable
Force Field, J. Phys. Chem. B 2006, 110, 3308

